-Our Founders' vision
of a republic is under threat
from actions
from the White House.
-By the way, it doesn't really
feel like we're being impeached.
-[chanting] Donald Trump
has got to go!
-Hey, hey; ho, ho.
Donald Trump has got to go.
-The people of America
see through this.
-Article 1 charges the president
of the United States
with abusing
the power of his office.
-The second article
of impeachment:
obstruction of Congress.
-The people of America
understand
due process and they understand
when it is being trampled
in the people's House.
-The House Intelligence
and Judiciary Committees
are done holding hearings.
And, as soon as
the Rules Committee
settles on terms of debate,
two articles of impeachment
are headed
to the House floor.
President Donald Trump is set
to become the third president
in American history
to be impeached.
-[chanting] Four more years!
Four more years!
-What do we want?
-Impeach trump!
-When do we want it?
-Now!
-On the day of and the hours
of debate, so,
come in at 9:00, 10:00,
vote on the rule,
six hours of debate,
equally divided, perhaps.
-Is that a Wednesday night
rally?
-Correct.
That says
"impeachment victory tour".
-First vote:
article 1, 15 minutes.
Second vote: 15 minutes.
-On the House side,
how many impeachment managers?
There's no limit.
-There's no guidance.
Historically, they always go to
the Judiciary Committee
'cause that's the one
that's handled it.
I think everybody expects Schiff
to be, you know, the lead.
The final thing would then be
the Senate passing [indistinct].
-And then, some sort of UC
or some sort of resolution
on when the impeachment trial
actually starts.
Oh, and probably judges
before they expire, yeah.
-With both sides acknowledging
President Trump's impeachment
seems inevitable, Senate leaders
are starting to discuss
what a trial might look like.
-This is a political process.
There's not anything judicial
about it.
Impeachment
is a political decision.
The House made a partisan
political decision to impeach.
I'm not impartial
about this at all.
-Senator McConnell,
you've been withholding.
-That's the weekly Tuesday
press conferences.
Mitch McConnell and Chuck
Schumer
come out with their
leadership teams right here.
It's called the Ohio
Clock corridor
because right behind me
is a clock.
It is not from Ohio.
It is actually from my hometown,
of Philadelphia,
but it's called the Ohio Clock.
Don't ask the question.
I don't have the answer.
But they come here every Tuesday
and they lay out
the weekly agenda.
-It's clear that
Senator McConnell
wants to use the Senate
to help participate
in a cover-up.
We have not heard a single
argument from Leader McConnell
as to why the witnesses
we have requested
should not come forward.
-Right now, they're on track
for what would be
a very partisan
beginning to the trial.
-The Rules Committee
will come to order.
A resolution impeaching
Donald John Trump,
president of the United States,
for high crimes
and misdemeanors.
-The House Rules Committee
holds the last hearing
before the impeachment articles
go to the House floor.
-We've listened to the hearings.
We read the transcripts.
-This committee sets the rules
of floor debate,
but, first, they have
a debate of their own,
echoing the arguments set forth
in the Intelligence
and Judiciary Committees.
-It's clear this this president
acted in a way
that not only violates
the public trust.
He jeopardized
our national security.
-At the end of the day,
it's simply last-minute
Christmas shoppin'.
They ran and found something
and said, "We can do it"!
-Personally, I believe
the articles themselves
are unwarranted.
-The Rules Committee
ultimately votes in favor
of holding six hours
of debate on Wednesday,
setting up a House floor
vote that night.
-All those in favor
will say aye.
-Aye!
-All those opposed, no.
-No!
-In the opinion of the chair,
the ayes have it
and the motion is agreed to.
-We look forward to getting
on to the Senate.
We're not entitled to lawyers.
We're not entitled to witnesses.
We're not entitled
to anything in the House.
It's a total sham.
-President Trump, meeting
with the president of Guatemala
at the White House, hits out
at the impeachment charges.
-Unless they do something
about this,
other presidents are gonna
have to live with this and,
every time they do something
that's a little bit unpopular,
a little bit strong,
even if they're 100% right.
-And, soon afterwards,
sends a letter to House Speaker
Nancy Pelosi,
protesting the whole process.
-President Trump released
a fiery letter
to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
-He says, "You have cheapened
the importance
of the very
ugly word impeachment".
-"You are violating
your oaths of office".
-"You are offending Americans
of faith by continually saying,
'I pray for the president,'
when you know
this statement is not true".
-"You are breaking your
allegiance to the Constitution,
and you are declaring open war
on American Democracy".
-He claims that there was
"more due process"
in the Salem with trials.
All this underneath
White House letterhead.
-The upcoming House votes have
galvanized people
in various cities to march
in favor of impeachment.
-The justice that he deserves.
We find Trump.
-Guilty, guilty, guilty!
-Including in Detroit.
-This is what
democracy looks like!
-Just two hours away
from Battle Creek, Michigan,
where President Trump will hold
a rally at about the same time
the House is voting
on whether to impeach him.
-This is not about that guy
that's in office,
but it's about
protecting our democracy.
'Cause we do not have a king.
He is not above the law
and that needs to be addressed.
-Ho, ho.
Donald Trump has got to go.
Hey, hey; ho, ho.
-After weeks of intense
partisan rancor,
it all comes down to today:
a vote on the floor
of the United States House
on whether to impeach
President Donald Trump.
Trump would only be
the third president
in American history
to be impeached.
-Washington is waking up for
a key day of impeachment today
and the final vote
on the House floor.
Meanwhile, more demonstrators
have gathered
outside the Capitol.
-Alright.
Alright, here we go.
It's Wednesday, December 18th.
It is Impeachment Day.
Just exactly one week
before Christmas.
At 9:00, the chamber's gonna
open up and, right away,
you're gonna see
procedural fights.
Republicans are gonna start
offering motions to adjourn.
-I move that the House
do now adjourn.
-Privilege resolutions.
-The privilege resolution.
-They're gonna do some
protest motions.
-I raise a point of order
against H Res 767.
-Opposed, say no.
-No!
-Once they approve the debate,
then,
you're gonna have six hours
of real back-and-forth debate
about whether or not Trump
should be the third president
ever to be impeached.
-When the president's wrongdoing
was revealed,
he launched an unprecedented,
indiscriminate,
and categorical campaign
of defiance and obstruction.
-But this notion, but, I mean,
they're talking about holding it
in months
and continuing investigations
and potentially adding
in articles and all this stuff.
-Never before, in the history
of our nation,
have we seen a president declare
and act
as if he is above the law.
-The fight isn't over.
I think that's what I put
at the end.
Impeachment might be done,
but the fight against Trump
isn't over.
-Will we let impeachment
become an exercise
of raw political power,
regardless if it damages
our country?
-This is an outrage.
I yield back.
-Gentleman from New York.
-Am deeply concerned
that any member of the House
could spout Russian propaganda
on the floor of the House.
-The gentleman from New York
is recognized for
[pounds gavel].
The House will come to order.
The gentleman from New York
is recognized for one minute.
-Thank you, Mr Chairman.
-Russian propaganda.
-[pounds gavel] The House
will come to order.
The House will come to order.
The gentleman from.
-Here we go, Mares.
-Yeah.
Nadler chided him and he tried
to defend himself,
but they cut off his mic
and so he just yelled at Nadler.
-Everything, so far,
is proceeding
pretty ridiculously
close to plan.
The votes on the articles of
impeachment early this evening.
-Only the president has
that power,
to corrupt our foreign policy
for political gain.
And, the moment
he chose to do so,
the moment he undermined
our security
in a scheme
to undermine our democracy,
whether he succeeded or not,
and thank God he did not,
at that moment.
-Start before the rally.
-No, the media,
look, look, I know.
You know, it's hard
for somebody to know
if you're not the subject
'cause how do you know
The New York Times
is totally dishonest,
The Washington Post?
ABC is so bad.
CNN and MSNBC, their ratings
are down the tubes.
It's great.
I like it.
-President Trump takes the stage
in Battle Creek
just four minutes before the
first impeachment vote begins.
-They think the Washington swamp
should be able
to veto the results
of an election.
-No way!
-That's what they think.
-The question now occurs
on the adoption of article 1.
-It's perversion.
-All in favor, say aye.
-We did nothing wrong.
-[bellowing] Aye!
-They don't even have any crime!
-Opposed, no.
-[bellowing] No!
-This is the first impeachment
where there's no crime.
-The yeas are 230.
The nays are 197.
Present is one.
Article 1 is adopted
[bangs gavel].
-So we had 198.
229-198.
We didn't lose one
Republican vote.
And, and, three Democrats
voted for us.
Haley!
I say, "Tell me
what I did, Pelosi".
"Well, we don't know!
You violated the Constitution".
Democrat lawmakers do not
believe you have the right
to select your own president.
-Article 2 [bangs gavel]
is adopted.
-Crazy Nancy Pelosi's House
Democrats
have branded themselves
with an eternal mark of shame,
and it really is.
It's a disgrace.
Yesterday, I sent Pelosi
a letter,
denouncing and condemning
her party's outrageous
abuse of power.
That's what it is.
They have nothing.
They're the ones that should
be impeached,
every one of 'em.